Prompt: Relate your own experiences to different schools of management.  Scientific, Behavioral, Authority, Responsibility, Centralization, Decentralization.

I will speak to my previous intern experience at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, and then briefly about what I think my future experience working full time at Bloomberg L.P. will be (based on my interview with a top level manager).

While Lincoln Lab is a scientific institution, it seems to be far from scientifically managed.  This is of course not detracting from the management there, I believe scientific management would not be wise for any company of scientific or creative nature.  Lincoln Lab is the first place where many new technologies are made.  Higher management described their process as "making it once and then distributing the technology."  So for example, they produce a prototype of a new communication system, distribute the schematics to American defense contractors who then actually manufacture and the deploy the system.  The contractor has some obvious metrics like number of systems built in some given time frame, but Lincoln Lab only has the metric of "did it work or not?".

From my own experience, Lincoln Lab is marked by decentralized behavioral management.  It is decentralized in that staff and interns are encouraged to think of their own creative ideas to solve a problem or conduct experiments.  Some staff even come up with their own projects which they devote lab resources and significant amounts of time to (as with the project I was working on over the summer).  It should be noted, however, that this is not the way that all, or even most projects are run.  Because Lincoln Lab does defense research, many projects are classified.  While most staff have obtained government clearance, some have obtained different levels, and all classified projects are dealt with on a need to know basis.  Therefore involvement in different projects in the company must follow very strict guidelines.  In my case, I was working on a non-classified project so I was able to receive a fair amount of authority.  For example, I had to conduct experiments with the system, so I was given the authority to remove the system from the lab, gain access to a special lab (a millimeter wave anechoic chamber) and work there for a day or so.

The management I had received was behavioral.  It truly felt like my mentor/manager cared for my well-being and that they themselves always appreciated feedback.  Feedback was given in the form of an individual performance review where my manager answered some previously determined questions and gave a rating out of 5.  The numeric rating was indicative of some level of scientific mangement, but it is a highly subjective measure, and the action to be taken would be on the side of the individual worker rather than the manager.

During my interview with a top level manager at Bloomberg, he explained the general structure and layout of the company.  He essentially explained that the company is very decentralized and that employees were given a lot of "freedom".  Translating this into management terms, employees have a lot of responsibility, and presumably the authority to fulfill it.  He said that most people say they want freedom when in reality they want to be told what to do.  This is because people want the authority they associate with freedom but not the responsibility that comes with it.  He said the company was very decentralized, which is in line with front line employees having authority.  He explained that this structure is useful because their buisness model prioritizes quick turnaround on new features.  Following a strict chain of command generally slows down operation, but since speed is king in the world of financial information, they can not afford a centralized approach.  The company 
